

                                    February 4, 1998
To:  Big Carrot

Re: Your telephone directory system

It has come to our attention that your company is seeking a software
package which will act as a telephone directory. Our company, Goulash,
has developed a process which we feel would suit this need extremely well.

Our process utilizes the hash table data construct. This method is
essential for the fastest searching possible. The best case scenario, using
our method, would only require one unit of time for the user to locate the
information sought.

To best see why hash tables are the best possible choice, you must first
understand how they work. A hash table consists of a linked list of one
dimensional arrays. Each array would contain the information which is
pertinent to each entry in the directory. When an entry is created, our
system would create a key based upon a simple algorithm. This key would
then be recomputed when the user typed in the information s/he was seeking.
Using this key, the software would then be pointed to the correct position
of the required information in the list. Searching in this way greatly cuts
down the number of entries which need to be examined for a match.

Since your needs call for a directory consisting of 100,000 data items, our
software will take this into account so that the fewest possible items need
to be examined for each search. The solitary downfall of this system is
that it requires a little more size than some others. However, this allows
for the fastest searching. We feel that this is a more than adequate
trade-off.

Our software package would require that your systems be running a 32-bit
operating system with virtual memory capabilities. Also, the system would
need to have sufficient external storage to load the software. The more RAM
that the platform has, the better, since more RAM allows for even faster
access and, therefore, response time.

We hope that our proposal meets with your needs and look forward to being
in contact with you soon.

Best regards,
Goulash Products International

From: Noah D Burt <ndburt@student.umass.edu>
Cc: kagagne@student.umass.edu, zakara@student.umass.edu,
        rjdumais@student.umass.edu, jeffroy@student.umass.edu,
        irslutz@student.umass.edu, wingus@student.umass.edu,
        jecraig@student.umass.edu, ahannon@student.umass.edu
